Samples/Core.EmbedJavaScriptJSOM/readme.md, before:

# Core.EmbedJavaScriptJSOM #

### Summary ###
This application sample demonstrates how to perform JavaScript embedding to update SharePoint sites, using the JavaScript Object Model and a SharePoint Hosted Add-In. 
This approach is preferred over customizing the Master Page.

### Applies to ###
-  Office 365 Multi Tenant (MT)
-  Office 365 Dedicated (D)
-  SharePoint 2013 on-premises

### Prerequisites ###
none

### Solution ###
Solution | Author(s)
---------|----------
Core.EmbedJavaScriptJSOM | Wictor Wilén (**http://www.wictorwilen.se**)

### Version history ###
Version | Date | Comments
---------| -----| --------
1.0 | September 10th 2014 | Initial release

### Disclaimer ###
**THIS CODE IS PROVIDED *AS IS* WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MERCHANTABILITY, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.**

## General Comments ##
This sample shows how one can use JavaScript to perform basic updates to a SharePoint site.  In this sample we will modify the Status Bar for all pages. 

![](http://i.imgur.com/xpL9UGb.png)

Commit message:

Updated reminder on the needed permissions and availability of capability on store.

Samples/Core.EmbedJavaScriptJSOM/readme.md, after:

# Core.EmbedJavaScriptJSOM #

### Summary ###
This application sample demonstrates how to perform JavaScript embedding to update SharePoint sites, using the JavaScript Object Model and a SharePoint Hosted Add-In. 
This approach is preferred over customizing the Master Page.

***Notice**. Techniques shown in this sample do require full permission to web or site collection level, so this is not a suitable model for apps designed to be distributed from the SharePoint store.*

### Applies to ###
-  Office 365 Multi Tenant (MT)
-  Office 365 Dedicated (D)
-  SharePoint 2013 on-premises

### Prerequisites ###
none

### Solution ###
Solution | Author(s)
---------|----------
Core.EmbedJavaScriptJSOM | Wictor Wilén (**http://www.wictorwilen.se**)

### Version history ###
Version | Date | Comments
---------| -----| --------
1.0 | September 10th 2014 | Initial release

### Disclaimer ###
**THIS CODE IS PROVIDED *AS IS* WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MERCHANTABILITY, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.**

## General Comments ##
This sample shows how one can use JavaScript to perform basic updates to a SharePoint site.  In this sample we will modify the Status Bar for all pages. 

![](http://i.imgur.com/xpL9UGb.png)
