.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, before:

Thank you for reporting an issue or suggesting an enhancement. We appreciate your feedback - to help the team to understand your needs, please complete the below template to ensure we have the necessary details to assist you. If you have a actual question, we would ask you to use PnP Yammer group at http://aka.ms/OfficeDevPnPYammer. Thanks!

#### Which PnP repository to report the issue?
- PnP Samples - https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP
- PnP Sites Core - https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP-Sites-Core
- PnP JS Core - https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP-JS-Core
- PnP PowerShell - https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP-PowerShell

*You can delete this section after you have confirmed target repository for your submission.*

#### Category
[ ] Bug
[ ] Enhancement

#### Environment
[ ] Office 365 / SharePoint Online
[ ] SharePoint 2016
[ ] SharePoint 2013

If SharePoint on-premises, what's exact CU version: 

#### Expected or Desired Behavior
_If you are reporting a bug, please describe the expected behavior. If you are suggesting an enhancement please
describe thoroughly the enhancement, how it can be achieved, and expected benefit._

#### Observed Behavior
_If you are reporting a bug, please describe the behavior you expected to occur when performing the action. If you are making a suggestion, you can delete this section._

#### Steps to Reproduce
_If you are reporting a bug please describe the steps to reproduce the bug in sufficient detail to allow testing. Only way to fix things properly, is to have sufficient details to reproduce it. If you are making a suggestion, you can delete this section._

#### Submission Guidelines
_Delete this section after reading_
- All suggestions or bugs are welcome, please let us know what's on your mind.
- If you are reporting any issues around PnP Core Component, please reproduce the issue with latest release.
- If you are reporting issue around PnP Provisioning Engine, please share the xml template, if possible.
- If you are reporting an issue around any of the samples, please ensure that you have clear reference on the sample and possibly code file, which should be fixed.
- If you have a general question, please use the [PnP Yammer Group](http://aka.ms/OfficeDevPnPYammer).
- Remember to include sufficient details and context.
- If you have multiple suggestions or bugs please submit them in seperate bugs so we can track resolution.

Thanks for your contribution! Sharing is caring.

Commit message:

Fixed references to old Yammer group for discussion

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, after:

Thank you for reporting an issue or suggesting an enhancement. We appreciate your feedback - to help the team to understand your needs, please complete the below template to ensure we have the necessary details to assist you. If you have a actual question, we would ask you to use [SharePoint Developer Group](http://aka.ms/sppnp-community) at Microsoft Tech Community. Thanks!

#### Which PnP repository to report the issue?
- PnP Samples - https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP
- PnP Sites Core - https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP-Sites-Core
- PnP JS Core - https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP-JS-Core
- PnP PowerShell - https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP-PowerShell

*You can delete this section after you have confirmed target repository for your submission.*

#### Category
[ ] Bug
[ ] Enhancement

#### Environment
[ ] Office 365 / SharePoint Online
[ ] SharePoint 2016
[ ] SharePoint 2013

If SharePoint on-premises, what's exact CU version: 

#### Expected or Desired Behavior
_If you are reporting a bug, please describe the expected behavior. If you are suggesting an enhancement please
describe thoroughly the enhancement, how it can be achieved, and expected benefit._

#### Observed Behavior
_If you are reporting a bug, please describe the behavior you expected to occur when performing the action. If you are making a suggestion, you can delete this section._

#### Steps to Reproduce
_If you are reporting a bug please describe the steps to reproduce the bug in sufficient detail to allow testing. Only way to fix things properly, is to have sufficient details to reproduce it. If you are making a suggestion, you can delete this section._

#### Submission Guidelines
_Delete this section after reading_
- All suggestions or bugs are welcome, please let us know what's on your mind.
- If you are reporting any issues around PnP Core Component, please reproduce the issue with latest release.
- If you are reporting issue around PnP Provisioning Engine, please share the xml template, if possible.
- If you are reporting an issue around any of the samples, please ensure that you have clear reference on the sample and possibly code file, which should be fixed.
- If you have a general question, please use the [SharePoint Developer Group](http://aka.ms/sppnp-community) at Microsoft Tech Community.
- Remember to include sufficient details and context.
- If you have multiple suggestions or bugs please submit them in seperate bugs so we can track resolution.

Thanks for your contribution! Sharing is caring.
