README.md, before:

# Patterns and Practices #
This is the main repository for the community driven [Office 365 Developer Patterns and Practices](http://aka.ms/OfficeDevPnP) (PnP) initiative. If you are looking for latest news around PnP or related topics, please have a look on our one pager at http://aka.ms/OfficeDevPnP.

![Office 365 Developer Patterns and Practices logo](http://i.imgur.com/l01hhvE.png)

PnP initiative has numerous GitHub repositories, so that you can more easily find what's relevant for you depending on your interest. Easiest way to follow up on latest changes is our landing page at http://aka.ms/OfficeDevPnP. We also recommend you to use the [PnP sample and solution search tool](http://dev.office.com/patterns-and-practices-resources) at dev.office.com for finding relevant content for you.

- [PnP at dev.office.com](http://aka.ms/OfficeDevPnP) - Welcome page with sample and guidance search
- [PnP Yammer Group](http://aka.ms/OfficeDevPnPYammer) - Questions and feedback
- [PnP at MSDN](http://aka.ms/OfficeDevPnPMSDN) 
- [PnP videos](http://aka.ms/OfficeDevPnPVideos) at Channel 9
- [PnP at Docs.com](https://docs.com/OfficeDevPnP) - Docs.com
- [PnP Sites Core Component](http://aka.ms/officedevpnpsitescore) - GitHub repository 
- [PnP Core Component (JavaScript)](https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP-JS-Core) - GitHub repository
- [PnP PowerShell](http://aka.ms/officedevpnppowershell) - GitHub repository
- [PnP Partner Pack](https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP-partner-pack) - Reusable starter kit for typical enterprise requirements
- [PnP Guidance](http://aka.ms/OfficeDevPnPGuidance) - GitHub repository
- [PnP Office-Addins](http://aka.ms/officedevpnpofficeaddins) - GitHub repository
- [PnP Tools](https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP-Tools) - GitHub repository
- [PnP Transformation](https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP-Transformation) - GitHub repository
- [PnP Provisioning Schema](https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP-provisioning-schema) - GitHub repository

You could be also interested on seeing all PnP resources in [one PowerPoint slide](https://docs.com/OfficeDevPnP/9085/office-dev-pnp-resources).

![A list of links to the various contact points for the Office 365 Developer Patterns and Practices group and content.](http://i.imgur.com/BcQEvwl.png)

**Notice**. There are different kind of techniques shown in the PnP guidance for apps/add-ins targetted to store and also for apps targeted to be deployed or created more as enterprise developmented apps/add-ins. Any app/add-in which requires higher than **Manage** permission to the host web cannot be distributed using SharePoint store.*

## "Sharing is caring" ## 

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/). For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

Commit message:

Fixed references to old Yammer group for discussion

README.md, after:

# Patterns and Practices #
This is the main repository for the community driven [Office 365 Developer Patterns and Practices](http://aka.ms/OfficeDevPnP) (PnP) initiative. If you are looking for latest news around PnP or related topics, please have a look on our one pager at http://aka.ms/OfficeDevPnP.

![Office 365 Developer Patterns and Practices logo](http://i.imgur.com/l01hhvE.png)

PnP initiative has numerous GitHub repositories, so that you can more easily find what's relevant for you depending on your interest. Easiest way to follow up on latest changes is our landing page at http://aka.ms/OfficeDevPnP. We also recommend you to use the [PnP sample and solution search tool](http://dev.office.com/patterns-and-practices-resources) at dev.office.com for finding relevant content for you.

- [PnP at dev.office.com](http://aka.ms/OfficeDevPnP) - Welcome page with sample and guidance search
- [SharePoint Dev Group](http://aka.ms/sppnp-community) - Questions and feedback
- [PnP at MSDN](http://aka.ms/OfficeDevPnPMSDN) 
- [PnP videos](http://aka.ms/OfficeDevPnPVideos) at YouTube
- [PnP at Docs.com](https://docs.com/OfficeDevPnP) - Docs.com
- [PnP Sites Core Component](http://aka.ms/officedevpnpsitescore) - GitHub repository 
- [PnP Core Component (JavaScript)](https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP-JS-Core) - GitHub repository
- [PnP PowerShell](http://aka.ms/officedevpnppowershell) - GitHub repository
- [PnP Partner Pack](https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP-partner-pack) - Reusable starter kit for typical enterprise requirements
- [PnP Guidance](http://aka.ms/OfficeDevPnPGuidance) - GitHub repository
- [PnP Office-Addins](http://aka.ms/officedevpnpofficeaddins) - GitHub repository
- [PnP Tools](https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP-Tools) - GitHub repository
- [PnP Transformation](https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP-Transformation) - GitHub repository
- [PnP Provisioning Schema](https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP-provisioning-schema) - GitHub repository

You could be also interested on seeing all PnP resources in [one PowerPoint slide](https://docs.com/OfficeDevPnP/9085/office-dev-pnp-resources).

![A list of links to the various contact points for the Office 365 Developer Patterns and Practices group and content.](http://i.imgur.com/BcQEvwl.png)

**Notice**. There are different kind of techniques shown in the PnP guidance for apps/add-ins targetted to store and also for apps targeted to be deployed or created more as enterprise developmented apps/add-ins. Any app/add-in which requires higher than **Manage** permission to the host web cannot be distributed using SharePoint store.*

## "Sharing is caring" ## 

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/). For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.
