Samples/Core.EmbedJavaScript.HeaderFooter/readme.md, before:

# Header & Footer SharePoint Add-In #

### Summary ###
The Core.EmbedJavaScript.HeaderFooter sample provides a provision page to include a custom **Header and Footer**.
The **Header and Footer** sample includes **custom Global Breadcrumbs (SharePoint or JSON Data)** and **custom Global Ribbons** that are acessible in all sites and subsites associated to Site Collection. The **Custom Breadcrumb is able to Navigate betweeen all Site Collection Sites and sub folders where user is located**, the **Site Collection Navigation is an custom Breadcrumb stored in PropertyBag base in JSON Data**. The Breadcrumb & Ribbon is available in all SharePoint Pages using an Scriptlink file stored in Site Collection, both features keep Minimal Download Strategy "MDS" enable.

### Applies to ###
-  Office 365 Multi Tenant (MT)
-  Office 365 Dedicated (D)
-  SharePoint 2013 on-premises

### Prerequisites ###
None

### Solution ###
Solution | Author(s)
---------|----------
Core.EmbedJavaScript.HeaderFooter| **André Lage**

### Version history ###
Version  | Date | Comments
---------| -----| --------
1.0  | Jun 18th 2015 | Initial release

### Disclaimer ###
**THIS CODE IS PROVIDED *AS IS* WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MERCHANTABILITY, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.**


----------

# Installation #
The Solution is an SharePoint Add-In that can be deployed in the app catalog site of the Tenant and then installed in the SharePoint Site using "Add an app" Option.

## Provisioning Head and Footer ##

The Add-in provides a Page to support the different steps of the provisioning of **Header and Footer** and associated features such us **Global Breadcrumbs (SharePoint or JSON Data)** and **Custom Global Ribbon** acessible in all Sites and Folders in the Site Collection.

![](http://i.imgur.com/co8aq8I.png)

The Page has 1 JSON Editor and 2 buttons for provision of Features associated to **Header and Footer**.

1. **JSON Editor Area**, this feature allow to customize the JSON data to create and Custom Breadcumb acessible in the HostWeb Site.
2. The Add provision option includes the Objects **"PropertyBag/JSON/JSFile/ScripLink"** in the RootHostWeb.
3. The Remove provision option removes the Objects **"PropertyBag/JSON/JSFile/ScripLink"** from the RootHostWeb.

### Provision Sequence ###
- PropertyBag **PnPGlobalBreadcrumbRibbon** is created in RootWeb of the SiteCollection, this item will have the JSON data from the **JSON Editor Area**, if the JSON is not correct format then assumes the **default** JSON Data:
**{"Breadcrumb": [{"title": "Home","description": "Home","url":"https://github.com/OfficeDev"},{"title": "Product Category","description": "Product Category","url":"https://github.com/OfficeDev"},{"title": "Product","description": "Product","url":"https://github.com/OfficeDev"},{"title": "Example","description": "Example","url":"https://github.com/OfficeDev"}]}**
- A file from the AppWeb **PnPGlobal.js** is copied to folder **"_catalogs/masterpage/Display Template"**, the JS file includes the code for the creation of the Global Breadcrumb **(SharePoint or JSON Data)** & Ribbon. 
- A **ScriptLink** is created in **SiteCollection** with name **PnPGlobalBreadcrumbRibbon** and linked to JS file **PnPGlobal.js**.

![](http://i.imgur.com/9uRUT6H.png)

## Header and Footer Add-In functionalities ##
1. Custom Header with Following Features:
    * **Global BreadCrumb (SharePoint or JSON Data)** is included bellow the Ribbon Banner.
    * **Global Ribbon with custom Actions** is included in Ribbon Banner ().
2. Custom Footer with Following Feature:
    * **Global BreadCrumb by SharePoint Data** (Path where user is located)

![](http://i.imgur.com/RXfIitR.png)

### Breadcrumb & Ribbon functionality ###
- Breadcumb is generated by **SharePoint Data** or **JSON** stored in **"RootWeb" propertybag "PnPGlobalBreadcrumbRibbon"**
- Minimal Download Strategy (MDS) is enable without issues.
- Breadcumb & Ribbon are available in all Sub Sites of the Site Collection.
- Ribbons Custom Actions can be included in the Global Ribbon.

![](http://i.imgur.com/bEF5uHX.png)


### Support Links for some actions: ###
**SP Ribbon Objects**
[https://paulbuzzblog.wordpress.com/2012/11/23/how-to-hide-the-sharepoint-ribbon/](https://paulbuzzblog.wordpress.com/2012/11/23/how-to-hide-the-sharepoint-ribbon/)

**Provision Files AppWeb to HostWeb**
[http://www.sharepointnutsandbolts.com/2013/05/sp2013-host-web-apps-provisioning-files.html](http://www.sharepointnutsandbolts.com/2013/05/sp2013-host-web-apps-provisioning-files.html)

Commit message:

Updated reminder on the needed permissions and availability of capability on store.

Samples/Core.EmbedJavaScript.HeaderFooter/readme.md, after:

# Header & Footer SharePoint Add-In #

### Summary ###
The Core.EmbedJavaScript.HeaderFooter sample provides a provision page to include a custom **Header and Footer**.
The **Header and Footer** sample includes **custom Global Breadcrumbs (SharePoint or JSON Data)** and **custom Global Ribbons** that are acessible in all sites and subsites associated to Site Collection. The **Custom Breadcrumb is able to Navigate betweeen all Site Collection Sites and sub folders where user is located**, the **Site Collection Navigation is an custom Breadcrumb stored in PropertyBag base in JSON Data**. The Breadcrumb & Ribbon is available in all SharePoint Pages using an Scriptlink file stored in Site Collection, both features keep Minimal Download Strategy "MDS" enable.

***Notice**. Techniques shown in this sample do require full permission to web or site collection level, so this is not a suitable model for apps designed to be distributed from the SharePoint store.*

### Applies to ###
-  Office 365 Multi Tenant (MT)
-  Office 365 Dedicated (D)
-  SharePoint 2013 on-premises

### Prerequisites ###
None

### Solution ###
Solution | Author(s)
---------|----------
Core.EmbedJavaScript.HeaderFooter| **André Lage**

### Version history ###
Version  | Date | Comments
---------| -----| --------
1.0  | Jun 18th 2015 | Initial release

### Disclaimer ###
**THIS CODE IS PROVIDED *AS IS* WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MERCHANTABILITY, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.**


----------

# Installation #
The Solution is an SharePoint Add-In that can be deployed in the app catalog site of the Tenant and then installed in the SharePoint Site using "Add an app" Option.

## Provisioning Head and Footer ##

The Add-in provides a Page to support the different steps of the provisioning of **Header and Footer** and associated features such us **Global Breadcrumbs (SharePoint or JSON Data)** and **Custom Global Ribbon** acessible in all Sites and Folders in the Site Collection.

![](http://i.imgur.com/co8aq8I.png)

The Page has 1 JSON Editor and 2 buttons for provision of Features associated to **Header and Footer**.

1. **JSON Editor Area**, this feature allow to customize the JSON data to create and Custom Breadcumb acessible in the HostWeb Site.
2. The Add provision option includes the Objects **"PropertyBag/JSON/JSFile/ScripLink"** in the RootHostWeb.
3. The Remove provision option removes the Objects **"PropertyBag/JSON/JSFile/ScripLink"** from the RootHostWeb.

### Provision Sequence ###
- PropertyBag **PnPGlobalBreadcrumbRibbon** is created in RootWeb of the SiteCollection, this item will have the JSON data from the **JSON Editor Area**, if the JSON is not correct format then assumes the **default** JSON Data:
**{"Breadcrumb": [{"title": "Home","description": "Home","url":"https://github.com/OfficeDev"},{"title": "Product Category","description": "Product Category","url":"https://github.com/OfficeDev"},{"title": "Product","description": "Product","url":"https://github.com/OfficeDev"},{"title": "Example","description": "Example","url":"https://github.com/OfficeDev"}]}**
- A file from the AppWeb **PnPGlobal.js** is copied to folder **"_catalogs/masterpage/Display Template"**, the JS file includes the code for the creation of the Global Breadcrumb **(SharePoint or JSON Data)** & Ribbon. 
- A **ScriptLink** is created in **SiteCollection** with name **PnPGlobalBreadcrumbRibbon** and linked to JS file **PnPGlobal.js**.

![](http://i.imgur.com/9uRUT6H.png)

## Header and Footer Add-In functionalities ##
1. Custom Header with Following Features:
    * **Global BreadCrumb (SharePoint or JSON Data)** is included bellow the Ribbon Banner.
    * **Global Ribbon with custom Actions** is included in Ribbon Banner ().
2. Custom Footer with Following Feature:
    * **Global BreadCrumb by SharePoint Data** (Path where user is located)

![](http://i.imgur.com/RXfIitR.png)

### Breadcrumb & Ribbon functionality ###
- Breadcumb is generated by **SharePoint Data** or **JSON** stored in **"RootWeb" propertybag "PnPGlobalBreadcrumbRibbon"**
- Minimal Download Strategy (MDS) is enable without issues.
- Breadcumb & Ribbon are available in all Sub Sites of the Site Collection.
- Ribbons Custom Actions can be included in the Global Ribbon.

![](http://i.imgur.com/bEF5uHX.png)


### Support Links for some actions: ###
**SP Ribbon Objects**
[https://paulbuzzblog.wordpress.com/2012/11/23/how-to-hide-the-sharepoint-ribbon/](https://paulbuzzblog.wordpress.com/2012/11/23/how-to-hide-the-sharepoint-ribbon/)

**Provision Files AppWeb to HostWeb**
[http://www.sharepointnutsandbolts.com/2013/05/sp2013-host-web-apps-provisioning-files.html](http://www.sharepointnutsandbolts.com/2013/05/sp2013-host-web-apps-provisioning-files.html)
