Solutions/AspNetCore.Authentication/README.md, before:

# OfficeDevPnP.Core.Framework.Authentication
An ASP.NET Core implementation of the TokenHelper and SharePointContext classes for use in SharePoint Apps

This library (and sample) demonstrates how to get ASP.NET Core provider-hosted apps authenticated through SharePoint.

### Summary ###
The PnP solution includes the following projects:
- OfficeDevPnP.Core.Framework.Authentication - The DNX assembly port with the necessary ASP.NET Core authentication middleware and authentication handler.
- AspNetCore.Mvc.StarterWeb - A sample ASP.NET Core web application demonstrating how to consume the above library and build a SharePoint provider-hosted app that can get SharePoint data
- AspNetCore.Mvc.SharePointApp - A sample SharePoint app to make deployment and testing easier

### Solution ###
Solution | Author(s)
---------|----------
AspNetCode.Authentication | Radi Atanassov, OneBit Software; Velin Georgiev, OneBit Software;

### Applies to ###
-  Office 365 Multi-Tenant (MT)

### Version history ###
Version  | Date | Comments
---------| -----| --------
1.0  | May 20th 2016 | Initial version

### Disclaimer ###
**THIS CODE IS PROVIDED *AS IS* WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MERCHANTABILITY, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.**

----------

## Design Decisions ##
This library/solution has the following goals in mind (some still not achieved!)

- We want it to be very easy to "Add" and "Use", based on the plug 'n' play model of ASP.NET Core
- We want it to achieve the least amount of change to the developer experience
- Based on the ASP.NET Core middleware design pattern
- We must compile to .NET Framework rather than Core due to Microsoft.IdentityModel.Extensions.dll. We will review this in future and see what our best options are.
- We've followed ASP.NET Core configuration and logging patterns
- Based on the ASP.NET Authorization & Authentication model
- We cannot add it to the current PnP Core assembly due to the old project format and the DNX format of this library
- Will be released through NuGet


## Getting Started ##
1. Build the OfficeDevPnP.Core.Framework.Authentication project and add a reference to the output NuGet package.

2. The following must be added to the Startup.cs Configure method in your ASP.NET Core web application:
```C#
            app.UseSharePointAuthentication(
                new SharePointAuthenticationOptions()
                {
                    AutomaticChallenge = false,
                    CookieAuthenticationScheme = "AspNet.ApplicationCookie",
                    ClientId = Configuration["SharePointAuthentication:ClientId"],
                    ClientSecret = Configuration["SharePointAuthentication:ClientSecret"],
                    Events = new SharePointAuthenticationEvents()
                    {
                        OnAuthenticationSucceeded = succeededContext =>
                        {
                            return Task.FromResult<object>(null);
                        },
                        OnAuthenticationFailed = failedContext =>
                        {
                            return Task.FromResult<object>(null);
                        }
                    }
                }
            );
```
3. The library needs Session and Cookies in order to keep track of the client requests during redirects. Add the following to the Configure method:
```C#
	app.UseSession();
        
	app.UseCookieAuthentication(new CookieAuthenticationOptions()
                {
                    AutomaticAuthenticate = true,
                    CookieHttpOnly = false, //set to false so we can read it from JavaScript
                    AutomaticChallenge = false,
                    AuthenticationScheme = "AspNet.ApplicationCookie",
                    ExpireTimeSpan = System.TimeSpan.FromDays(14),
                    LoginPath = "/account/login"
                }
        );
```
4. For the Session & Cookie pipeline additions to work, the following needs to be added to the ConfigureServices method of Startup.cs:
```C#
            services.AddCaching();
            services.AddSession(o => { o.IdleTimeout = TimeSpan.FromSeconds(3600); });
```
5. You might need to restore your Bower and Nuget packages if they are not present on your machine.

## Release Notes ##
- RC1 is working and ready for use
- RC2 port is currently in testing
- This only works with ACS, High Trust is still not supported/developed yet :(
- Remote Event Receivers not tested yet

<img  src="https://telemetry.sharepointpnp.com/pnp/solutions/AspNetCore.Authentication" />

Commit message:

ASP.NET Core Authentication - README.md update (#1527)
* AspNetCore Auth - Added a NuGet and NuSpec files

AspNetCore Auth - Added a NuGet and NuSpec files to reference the OfficeDevPnP.Core.Framework.Authentication.dll file in another project

* AspNetCore Auth - updated readme.md to clarify RTM support

Solutions/AspNetCore.Authentication/README.md, after:

# OfficeDevPnP.Core.Framework.Authentication
An ASP.NET Core implementation of the TokenHelper and SharePointContext classes for use in SharePoint Add-ins that run on ASP.NET Core.

This library (and sample) demonstrates how to get ASP.NET Core provider-hosted apps authenticated through SharePoint.

### Summary ###
The PnP solution includes the following projects:
- OfficeDevPnP.Core.Framework.Authentication - The .NET Core assembly port with the necessary ASP.NET Core authentication middleware and authentication handler.
- AspNetCore.Mvc.StarterWeb - A sample ASP.NET Core web application demonstrating how to consume the above library and build a SharePoint provider-hosted app that can get SharePoint data
- AspNetCore.Mvc.SharePointApp - A sample SharePoint app to make deployment and testing easier

### Solution ###
Solution | Author(s)
---------|----------
AspNetCode.Authentication | Radi Atanassov, OneBit Software; Velin Georgiev, OneBit Software;

### Applies to ###
-  Office 365 Multi-Tenant (MT)

### Version history ###
Version  | Date | Comments
---------| -----| --------
1.0  | May 20th 2016 | Initial version
1.0  | September 2016 | Updated to run on RTM bits

### Disclaimer ###
**THIS CODE IS PROVIDED *AS IS* WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MERCHANTABILITY, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.**

----------

## Design Decisions ##
This library/solution has the following goals in mind (some still not achieved!)

- We want it to be very easy to "Add" and "Use", based on the plug 'n' play model of ASP.NET Core
- We want it to achieve the least amount of change to the developer experience
- Based on the ASP.NET Core middleware design pattern
- We must compile to .NET Framework rather than Core due to Microsoft.IdentityModel.Extensions.dll. We will review this in future and see what our best options are.
- We've followed ASP.NET Core configuration and logging patterns
- Based on the ASP.NET Authorization & Authentication model
- We cannot add it to the current PnP Core assembly due to the old project format and the DNX format of this library
- Will be released through NuGet

## Further Reading ##
You will find more details on the decisions, challenges and implementations here:

[Developing the ASP.NET Core Authentication/Authorization Middleware for SharePoint Provider-Hosted Apps (Add-ins)](http://www.sharepoint.bg/radi/post/Developing-the-ASPNET-Core-AuthenticationAuthorization-Middleware-for-SharePoint-Provider-Hosted-Apps-(Add-ins))

[Getting Started with ASP.NET Core Add-ins for SharePoint Online](http://www.sharepoint.bg/radi/post/Getting-Started-with-ASPNET-Core-Add-ins-for-SharePoint-Online)


## Getting Started ##
1. Build the OfficeDevPnP.Core.Framework.Authentication project and add a reference to the output NuGet package.

2. The following must be added to the Startup.cs Configure method in your ASP.NET Core web application:
```C#
            app.UseSharePointAuthentication(
                new SharePointAuthenticationOptions()
                {
                    AutomaticChallenge = false,
                    CookieAuthenticationScheme = "AspNet.ApplicationCookie",
                    ClientId = Configuration["SharePointAuthentication:ClientId"],
                    ClientSecret = Configuration["SharePointAuthentication:ClientSecret"],
                    Events = new SharePointAuthenticationEvents()
                    {
                        OnAuthenticationSucceeded = succeededContext =>
                        {
                            return Task.FromResult<object>(null);
                        },
                        OnAuthenticationFailed = failedContext =>
                        {
                            return Task.FromResult<object>(null);
                        }
                    }
                }
            );
```
3. The library needs Session and Cookies in order to keep track of the client requests during redirects. Add the following to the Configure method:
```C#
	app.UseSession();
        
	app.UseCookieAuthentication(new CookieAuthenticationOptions()
                {
                    AutomaticAuthenticate = true,
                    CookieHttpOnly = false, //set to false so we can read it from JavaScript
                    AutomaticChallenge = false,
                    AuthenticationScheme = "AspNet.ApplicationCookie",
                    ExpireTimeSpan = System.TimeSpan.FromDays(14),
                    LoginPath = "/account/login"
                }
        );
```
4. For the Session & Cookie pipeline additions to work, the following needs to be added to the ConfigureServices method of Startup.cs:
```C#
            services.AddSession();
```
5. You might need to restore your Bower and Nuget packages if they are not present on your machine.

## Release Notes ##
- Works on RTM
- This only works with ACS, High Trust is still not supported/developed yet :(
- Remote Event Receivers not tested yet

<img src="https://telemetry.sharepointpnp.com/pnp/solutions/AspNetCore.Authentication" />
