Samples/Core.EmbedJavaScript/readme.md, before:

# Core.EmbedJavaScript #

### Summary ###
This code sample demonstrates how to embed JavaScript on a SharePoint site to update the UI. Use this technique instead of customizing the Master Page.

### Resources ###

MSDN article - [Customize your SharePoint site UI by using JavaScript](https://msdn.microsoft.com/EN-US/library/office/dn913116.aspx)

Channel 9 video - [http://channel9.msdn.com/Blogs/Office-365-Dev/JavaScript-injection-in-SharePoint-Online-Office-365-Developer-Patterns-and-Practices](http://channel9.msdn.com/Blogs/Office-365-Dev/JavaScript-injection-in-SharePoint-Online-Office-365-Developer-Patterns-and-Practices)

### Applies to ###
-  Office 365 Multi Tenant (MT)
-  Office 365 Dedicated (D)
-  SharePoint 2013 on-premises

### Prerequisites ###
None

### Solution ###
Solution | Author(s)
---------|----------
Core.EmbedJavaScript | Vesa Juvonen, Bert Jansen, Frank Marasco (Microsoft)

### Version history ###
Version  | Date | Comments
---------| -----| --------
1.0  | May 22th 2014 | Initial release

### Disclaimer ###
**THIS CODE IS PROVIDED *AS IS* WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MERCHANTABILITY, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.**

Commit message:

Updated reminder on the needed permissions and availability of capability on store.

Samples/Core.EmbedJavaScript/readme.md, after:

# Core.EmbedJavaScript #

### Summary ###
This code sample demonstrates how to embed JavaScript on a SharePoint site to update the UI. Use this technique instead of customizing the Master Page.

***Notice**. Techniques shown in this sample do require full permission to web or site collection level, so this is not a suitable model for apps designed to be distributed from the SharePoint store.*

### Resources ###

MSDN article - [Customize your SharePoint site UI by using JavaScript](https://msdn.microsoft.com/EN-US/library/office/dn913116.aspx)

Channel 9 video - [http://channel9.msdn.com/Blogs/Office-365-Dev/JavaScript-injection-in-SharePoint-Online-Office-365-Developer-Patterns-and-Practices](http://channel9.msdn.com/Blogs/Office-365-Dev/JavaScript-injection-in-SharePoint-Online-Office-365-Developer-Patterns-and-Practices)

### Applies to ###
-  Office 365 Multi Tenant (MT)
-  Office 365 Dedicated (D)
-  SharePoint 2013 on-premises

### Prerequisites ###
None

### Solution ###
Solution | Author(s)
---------|----------
Core.EmbedJavaScript | Vesa Juvonen, Bert Jansen, Frank Marasco (Microsoft)

### Version history ###
Version  | Date | Comments
---------| -----| --------
1.0  | May 22th 2014 | Initial release

### Disclaimer ###
**THIS CODE IS PROVIDED *AS IS* WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MERCHANTABILITY, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.**
