# Manage UserCustomAction using SharePoint-Hosted App#

### Summary ###
The Manage UserCustomAction sample shows how to manage UserCustomActions Objects using a Form interface where is possible to include/edit/delete UserCustomActions. This sample app extends the Out of the Box SharePoint Object "UserCustomAction" with a basic user interface Form e pre-filled Data need to support the object that allows PowerUsers to manage custom actions like "Scriptlink", "Ribbons" and "Custom Actions" in the Host Site.

### Applies to ###
-  Office 365 Multi Tenant (MT)
-  Office 365 Dedicated (D)
-  SharePoint 2013 on-premises

### Prerequisites ###
None

### Solution ###
Solution | Author(s)
---------|----------
Core.ManageUserCustomAction| André Lage

### Version history ###
Version  | Date | Comments
---------| -----| --------
1.0  | May 26th 2015 | Initial release

### Disclaimer ###
**THIS CODE IS PROVIDED *AS IS* WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MERCHANTABILITY, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.**


----------

# Instalation #
The Solution is a SharePoint-Hosted App that can be deploy in the app catalog site of the Tenant and then install in the SharePoint Site using "Add an app" Option.

## SharePoint ##

### Leasons Learn ###
- 
- Good UI and UX is critical for better acceptance of an app.
- Creation of Log List to support errors generated by the app.
- Creation of Help or/and tutorial on how to work with the app.
- Creation of Recycle List to store deleted SharePoint Object "UserCustomActions" base in JSON, by default this SharePoint Objects are not stored in the Out of the Box recycled bin.
- Creation of Resource files or [Language].js files to support a multilanguage app.



