Samples/Branding.InjectResponsiveCSS/readme.md, before:

# Making out of the box Seattle master responsive #

### Summary ###
Demonstrate how to update out of the box seattle.master user expirience responsive without a need to modify the master page as such, but rather to take advantage of the AlternateCssUrl property in Web level. Responsive CSS design has been done by Heather Solomon and you can read more information about the CSS details from following blog post.

* Heather Solomon (SharePoint Experts, Inc) - [Making Seattle master responsive](http://blog.sharepointexperience.com/2015/03/making-seattle-master-responsive/)

To make sure the css is rendered correctly on hardware devices a viewport html meta tag needs to be added to the master page. This can be accomplied by using the Search Engine Optimization Settings. Again the master page doesn't need to be edited. More details on this are covered in the following blog post.

* Stefan Bauer (n8d) - [How to add viewport meta without editing the master page](http://www.n8d.at/blog/how-to-add-viewport-meta-without-editing-the-master-page/)

### Applies to ###
-  Office 365 Multi Tenant (MT)
-  Office 365 Dedicated (D)*
-  SharePoint 2013 on-premises*

Experience might be slightly different, but the same thinking and process applies to on-premises as well.

### Prerequisites ###
To add valid viewport settings to the master page the site collection feature "SharePoint Server Publishing Infrastructure" needs to be activated. No other publishing related feature needs to be activated.
Alternatively the viewport meta tag can be added through a custom action[https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP/tree/master/Samples/Core.EmbedJavaScript](https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP/tree/master/Samples/Core.EmbedJavaScript). This is currently not covered in this solution. The HTML element that needs to be added is:

```HTML
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1, maximum-scale=1" />
```

### Solution ###
Solution | Author(s)
---------|----------
Branding.InjectResponsiveCSS | Heather Solomon (**SharePoint Experts, Inc**) 

Packaging and remote provisioning with AlternateCSSUrl approach done by Vesa Juvonen, Microsoft
Provisioning of viewport meta tag settings done by Stefan Bauer, n8d

### Version history ###
Version  | Date | Comments
---------| -----| --------
1.1  | May 2nd 2015 | Viewport meta tag added


> 1.0  | April 26th 2015 | Initial release

### Disclaimer ###
**THIS CODE IS PROVIDED *AS IS* WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MERCHANTABILITY, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.**


----------

# Responsive Experience #
Please check Heather's blog post for detailed information on the CSS design at [http://blog.sharepointexperience.com/2015/03/making-seattle-master-responsive](http://blog.sharepointexperience.com/2015/03/making-seattle-master-responsive/)

Here's three pictures which are showing how the responsive CSS will behave when screen size is adjusted.

![](http://i.imgur.com/I0PR6Qj.png)

Notice how the left navigation is removed the search box has been relocated. 

![](http://i.imgur.com/iyAHWFh.png)

Notice how the top navigation is rendered completely differently

![](http://i.imgur.com/u9yYn8V.png)

If navigation control is clicked, user is presented the same list of navigation options

![](http://i.imgur.com/BRtYm79.png)


# Attaching custom css to site #
Attaching the css to the site is two step process. We upload the CSS to some location where it can be used from and then we update the AlternateCssUrl property of the web to the right URL. 

Here's the code for uploading css to the site assets library using *FileCreationInformation* object.

```C#
/// <summary>
/// Uploads used CSS and site logo to host web
/// </summary>
/// <param name="web"></param>
    private static void UploadAssetsToHostWeb(Web web)
    {
        // Ensure site asset library exists in case of a publishing web site
        web.Lists.EnsureSiteAssetsLibrary();

        // Instance to site assets
        List assetLibrary = web.Lists.GetByTitle("Site Assets");
        web.Context.Load(assetLibrary, l => l.RootFolder);

        // Get the path to the file which we are about to deploy
        string cssFile = Path.Combine(AppDomain.CurrentDomain.BaseDirectory, "resources/spe-seattle-responsive.css");

        // Use CSOM to upload the file in
        FileCreationInformation newFile = new FileCreationInformation
        {
            Content = System.IO.File.ReadAllBytes(cssFile),
            Url = "spe-seattle-responsive.css",
            Overwrite = true
        };
        Microsoft.SharePoint.Client.File uploadFile = assetLibrary.RootFolder.Files.Add(newFile);
        web.Context.Load(uploadFile);
        web.Context.ExecuteQuery();
    }

```

After the CSS is available, we can just set the AlternateCssUrl property, so that it's taken into use automatically by the site when browsers are accessing it. 

```C#
web.AlternateCssUrl = ctx.Web.ServerRelativeUrl + "/SiteAssets/spe-seattle-responsive.css";
web.Update();
web.Context.ExecuteQuery();
```

After setting the CSS Url, the viewport meta tag will be added to the "Search Engine Optimization Settings". This makes sure that the CSS values will be shown correctly on any hardware device.

```C#
    if (allProperties.FieldValues.ContainsKey("seoincludecustommetatagpropertyname")) {
        allProperties["seoincludecustommetatagpropertyname"] = true.ToString();
    }
    // Add value of custom meta tag
    if (allProperties.FieldValues.ContainsKey("seocustommetatagpropertyname"))
    {
        allProperties["seocustommetatagpropertyname"] = "<meta name=\"viewport\" content=\"width=device-width, initial-scale=1, maximum-scale=1\" />";
    }
```

Commit message:

Some polishing and adjustments in the documentation.

Samples/Branding.InjectResponsiveCSS/readme.md, after:

# Making out of the box Seattle master responsive #

### Summary ###
Demonstrate how to update out of the box seattle.master user expirience responsive without a need to modify the master page as such, but rather to take advantage of the AlternateCssUrl property in Web level. Responsive CSS design has been done by Heather Solomon and you can read more information about the CSS details from following blog post.

* Heather Solomon (SharePoint Experts, Inc) - [Making Seattle master responsive](http://blog.sharepointexperience.com/2015/03/making-seattle-master-responsive/)

To make sure the css is rendered correctly on hardware devices a viewport html meta tag needs to be added to the master page. This can be accomplied by using the Search Engine Optimization Settings. Again the master page doesn't need to be edited. More details on this are covered in the following blog post.

* Stefan Bauer (n8d) - [How to add viewport meta without editing the master page](http://www.n8d.at/blog/how-to-add-viewport-meta-without-editing-the-master-page/)

*Notice* - There's more fine tuned and polished responsive UI CSS included in the PnP Partner Pack, which can be accessed from http://aka.ms/OfficeDevPnPPartnerPack. 

### Applies to ###
-  Office 365 Multi Tenant (MT)
-  Office 365 Dedicated (D)*
-  SharePoint 2013 on-premises*

Experience might be slightly different, but the same thinking and process applies to on-premises as well.

### Prerequisites ###
To add valid viewport settings to the master page the site collection feature "SharePoint Server Publishing Infrastructure" needs to be activated. No other publishing related feature needs to be activated.
Alternatively the viewport meta tag can be added through a custom action[https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP/tree/master/Samples/Core.EmbedJavaScript](https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP/tree/master/Samples/Core.EmbedJavaScript). This is currently not covered in this solution. The HTML element that needs to be added is:

```HTML
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1, maximum-scale=1" />
```

### Solution ###
Solution | Author(s)
---------|----------
Branding.InjectResponsiveCSS | Heather Solomon (**SharePoint Experts, Inc**) 

Packaging and remote provisioning with AlternateCSSUrl approach done by Vesa Juvonen, Microsoft
Provisioning of viewport meta tag settings done by Stefan Bauer, n8d

### Version history ###
Version  | Date | Comments
---------| -----| --------
1.2  | November 19th 2015 | Small polishing on the code and adjustments in the documentation
1.1  | May 2nd 2015 | Viewport meta tag added
1.0  | April 26th 2015 | Initial release

### Disclaimer ###
**THIS CODE IS PROVIDED *AS IS* WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MERCHANTABILITY, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.**


----------

# Responsive Experience #
Please check Heather's blog post for detailed information on the CSS design at [http://blog.sharepointexperience.com/2015/03/making-seattle-master-responsive](http://blog.sharepointexperience.com/2015/03/making-seattle-master-responsive/)

Here's three pictures which are showing how the responsive CSS will behave when screen size is adjusted.

![](http://i.imgur.com/I0PR6Qj.png)

Notice how the left navigation is removed the search box has been relocated. 

![](http://i.imgur.com/iyAHWFh.png)

Notice how the top navigation is rendered completely differently

![](http://i.imgur.com/u9yYn8V.png)

If navigation control is clicked, user is presented the same list of navigation options

![](http://i.imgur.com/BRtYm79.png)


# Attaching custom css to site #
Attaching the css to the site is two step process. We upload the CSS to some location where it can be used from and then we update the AlternateCssUrl property of the web to the right URL. 

Here's the code for uploading css to the site assets library using *FileCreationInformation* object.

```C#
/// <summary>
/// Uploads used CSS and site logo to host web
/// </summary>
/// <param name="web"></param>
    private static void UploadAssetsToHostWeb(Web web)
    {
        // Ensure site asset library exists in case of a publishing web site
        web.Lists.EnsureSiteAssetsLibrary();

        // Instance to site assets
        List assetLibrary = web.Lists.GetByTitle("Site Assets");
        web.Context.Load(assetLibrary, l => l.RootFolder);

        // Get the path to the file which we are about to deploy
        string cssFile = Path.Combine(AppDomain.CurrentDomain.BaseDirectory, "resources/spe-seattle-responsive.css");

        // Use CSOM to upload the file in
        FileCreationInformation newFile = new FileCreationInformation
        {
            Content = System.IO.File.ReadAllBytes(cssFile),
            Url = "spe-seattle-responsive.css",
            Overwrite = true
        };
        Microsoft.SharePoint.Client.File uploadFile = assetLibrary.RootFolder.Files.Add(newFile);
        web.Context.Load(uploadFile);
        web.Context.ExecuteQuery();
    }

```

After the CSS is available, we can just set the AlternateCssUrl property, so that it's taken into use automatically by the site when browsers are accessing it. 

```C#
web.AlternateCssUrl = ctx.Web.ServerRelativeUrl + "/SiteAssets/spe-seattle-responsive.css";
web.Update();
web.Context.ExecuteQuery();
```

After setting the CSS Url, the viewport meta tag will be added to the "Search Engine Optimization Settings". This makes sure that the CSS values will be shown correctly on any hardware device.

```C#
    if (allProperties.FieldValues.ContainsKey("seoincludecustommetatagpropertyname")) {
        allProperties["seoincludecustommetatagpropertyname"] = true.ToString();
    }
    // Add value of custom meta tag
    if (allProperties.FieldValues.ContainsKey("seocustommetatagpropertyname"))
    {
        allProperties["seocustommetatagpropertyname"] = "<meta name=\"viewport\" content=\"width=device-width, initial-scale=1, maximum-scale=1\" />";
    }
```
